#summary Feature ideas for SwitchList

= Introduction =

Here's a list of some of the future features for SwitchList.  Add your own ideas here, and look around for potential features you can add to SwitchList!


= Car Movement Ideas =

  * Variable unloading times.  Let some cargo require two days to unload, and others one.
  * ~~Add support for setting minimum and maximum train lengths.~~ Done.
  * ~~Provide siding length for each industry, and make sure there's space for cars being dropped off.~~ In 0.9.4.
  * Make sure all switchlists and documents are presenting door assignments, and sorting lists by door.
  * Support advanced features - cleanout and scale, and icing tracks.  (Requires more explicit yard instructions?)

= Setup Ideas =
  * Automatically create cargos based on the OPSIG Industry lists.
  * Automatically create divisions based on the railroad and location, and do an initial placement of cars in divisions.
  * Change division idea to something closer to "where is this car allowed to leave the layout?"
  * Add features that would be helpful for a Freemo-like group where layouts are set up differently each time and where the attending module owners may vary or change.  Example of features might be reordering towns quickly, enabling or disabling groups of cars based on owners, automatically come up with cargos based on the industry, etc.

= Switch List Ideas = 
  * More realistic switch list forms.
  * Create better forms and documents for running an active yard.
  * Create a Coverflow-like UI for selecting the right switchlist.
  * Control blocking order more explicitly.
  * ~~Use CSS to make the web switchlists resemble the printed forms.~~ (In 0.8.0)

= Overall Experience =
  * Print Everything.  If you try to print from the main menu, a (currently disabled) feature would print switchlists for all trains on your layout at once.  Get this working again.  Use a dialog with checkboxes to allow the user to select which subset of switchlists and yard reports to print.
 ~~Improve the first pages of the web interface - it's currently bare-bones text.~~ (In 0.8.0)

= iPad =
  * Create an iPad version of SwitchList that can print switchlists through AirPrint, or can just show switchlists on the iPad for individual model railroaders with a small layout.