#summary Index to current in-app SwitchList documentation.

= Introduction =

This is the current layout for the HTML-based AppleHelp for SwitchList.  It's useful both for identifying the file containing a particular topic, and understanding where to add new pages.

General format is topic, (page name), current status.

= Details =

==Main pages==

General "How To" and introduction pages.

Main Page: (SwitchList.html)  REDO to better group what we want here.

Key Features: (pg1.html) REDO.  Needed?

Setting Up a Layout with SwitchList (pg2.html) ADD MORE CONTENT

Running an Operating Session with Switchlist (pg3.html) ADD MORE CONTENT

Switchlist styles: (pg4.html) ADD more content for different switchlists.

Reports: (pg5.html) ADD more content.

Example Layouts (pg6.html)

Acknowledgements (pg7.html)

Problems:

==Conceptual documents==
high level descriptions of what Switchlist Does.

In Depth Topics: (pg10.html) Needs intro.

Best layouts for SwitchList (pg11.html)

How to design cargos (pg13.html) 

==User Interface Elements==

User interface elements (pg20.html)

Freight cars (pg21.html)

Yards (pg22.html)

Layout tab (pg23.html)

Industries tab (pg24.html)

Towns (pg25.html)

Trains (pg26.html)

Cargos (pg27.html)

Overview (pg28.html)

Preferences (pg29.html) 

Set Train Path (pg30.html)

Problems Window (pg31.html)

Suggest Cargos (pg32.html)

Style Tab (pg33.html)

==SwitchList In Detail==
SwitchList in Detail (pg50.html)

Detail:Divisions for cars and industries  (pg51.html)

Detail: Importing freight cars (pg52.html)

Detail: Choosing car types, and details about AAR classifications. (pg53.html)

Detail: Viewing SwitchLists on iPad (pg54.html)

Detail: spotting cars at particular doors (pg55.html)

Detail: Layout Balance and Unavailable Cars (pg56.html)

Detail: Difficulties in Car Movement (pg57.html)

Detail: Moving Cars Only If Space At Industry (pg58.html)

==SwitchList Forms==

SwitchList forms: (pg4 contains the full list)

Large Type SwitchList (pg70.html)

Narrow Southern Pacific Style (pg71.html)

Traditional From/To (pg72.html)

Drop Off / Pick Up (pg73.html)

==Example Layouts==

Stockton and Stockton With Divisions (pg80.html)

Vasona Branch (pg81.html)

Waterside Yard (pg82.html)

Oakland (pg83.html)

==Definitions==

Definitions: (pg100.html)

What are staging towns (pg101.html)

What are offline towns (pg102.html)

What is workbench (pg103.html)

What counts as an industry? (pg104.html)

What counts as a yard? (pg105.html)

How to represent interchanges? (pg106.html)

==Customizing==

Customization (pg200.html)

Creating Custom SwitchLists (pg201.html)

Redefining Home and Layout Pages in Web Interface (pg202.html)

==Style guide for HTML:==

HTML

H1 for title

h2 for major sections

All content should be in a <div id=leftspace">

All inline images should use the "floatRight" class to be against the right margin and take 30% of the column.  All images should have a link to the full image.

==Process==

Run /Developer/Applications/Utilities/Help Indexer.app after every set of changes.