#summary SwitchList: Summary

= Introduction =

SwitchList is a Macintosh program for automatically making lists of freight cars to switch on a model railroad. If you have a small model railroad or a shelf layout and want a switch list program that’s easy to set up and easy to use, try it out! 

The main web page for SwitchList is at http://www.vasonabranch.com/railroad/switchlist.html

The main discussion list for SwitchList operation is at http://groups.google.com/group/switchlist
= Features =

 * Large print switch lists are easy to read and look handwritten. Make your operators think you spent all night writing up switch lists!
 * Graphical user interface for setting up and printing out switch lists. No more editing cryptic files being processed by a ten year old Tcl program!
 * Easy to adjust the available cargos for more realistic traffic flows. Adjusting operating sessions no longer means writing out a hundred new car cards!
 * Not all cars have to move each session, so movements appear more random. No more repetitive, identical operating sessions!
 * Allows realistic routing of different railroad’s empty freight cars to different staging yards. Empties leave in a realistic way.
 * Assigns freight cars based on owner of car. A C&O boxcar won’t be used to haul cement locally for your California railroad.

= Requirements to Run SwitchList  =
Requires Mac OS X 10.5 (Leopard) or greater.

The SwitchList binary works on both PowerPC and Intel Macintoshes.

= Requirements to Develop SwitchList =

Requires Mac OS X 10.5 and XCode 3.2.6.  You can download Xcode from Apple.